On behalf of the Alces Flight Crew we’d like to welcome you on board the Alces
Flight Launch Service. This service has been developed to quickly launch a
preconfigured High Performance Computing (HPC) cluster. With the Alces Flight
Launch Service you gain temporary access to instant, single-user scientific
computing at no cost to you.

The service begins the moment you enter your Flight Launch token into the HPC
cluster you wish to evaluate and ends at the pre-determined time period listed
on the HPC cluster information card.

##### How to use a Flight Launch token

Through one of the Alces Flight Crew or via one of our trusted partner
networks you should have a received a Flight Launch token consisting of three
unrelated words (e.g. “flower – star – moose”). Don’t have one yet?  Contact
us through this request form and we’ll start the process of securing you a
Flight Launch token.

Once you’ve secured a token simply search through the available preconfigured
clusters. When you’ve decided the HPC cluster you wish to trial enter the
token, the name you’d like to give your cluster, and the email address you
want to receive HPC cluster updates to.

Then, simply press launch! You are now moments away from HPC cluster access.

##### Using your preconfigured HPC cluster

Once you are notified that your HPC cluster is active you can use the
pre-determined time as you see fit. Work with the applications that come
pre-installed or try your hand at installing and running any of the Alces
Gridware Open Source applications available from this list:
https://gridware.alces- flight.com/

While we’ll send you plenty of emails letting you know your HPC cluster's status
remember: It is a trial service and time limited. Please remember to save any
work you perform while using your Flight Launch token!

##### Getting ready to launch and more information

Want to spend some time reading up on the Alces Flight Launch service prior to
starting your evaluation? We have a documentation site dedicated to the cause
as well as a Community Support Portal available for you to join in and read
through.

Enjoy your flight!
